RADIO TELESCOPE REPORT - Vern Naffier

   Progress has admittedly been slow on bringing our radio telescope projects up
to operational status in part because of a number of expansions of the project
along the way and in part also because of occurring problems that have had, and
continue, to need attention. But progress is being made. This summer I built a
cabinet to house the electronic equipment for the three radio telescopes under
construction, and I re-outfitted a stand to support and move one of the small
radio telescope antennas. A problem was encountered with the axis motor on the
large dish antenna in the observatory yard. Early in this year I had built a
36 volt power supply with reversible polarity switching. Late this summer, when
I hooked the power supply to the axis motor, nothing happened; the motor would
not turn to move the dish. I took the axis assembly home, thanks to Larry
Musselman and Dave lynch for dismounting it, to work on it. I finally got the
motor to work by bypassing an electrical diodes and switches frontend of the
motor which was made for TV satellite purposes but not for use as a radio
telescope. I wired power directly to the motor, and, voila, the motor worked.
By toggling the polarity switch on the power supply the motor was able to run
in reverse directions. On Saturday, August 24, Larry and Dave remounted the
axis assembly including the motor, and to our disappointment the motor was not
able to push an extension arm outward to move the dish. The threaded arm or a
worm gear may be locked up. At this point in time the axis assembly has to be
dismounted again and taken apart for checking. Apart from this problem the
large dish 1.42 GHz radio telescope should be ready for elementary operation.

   We also have a small dish radio telescope which uses a 32 inch dish and
feedhorn tuned to 12 GHz. The scope is in partial working condition in that we
are able to take meter and audio readings of solar microwave radiation. But an
additional feature of this radio telescope is the ability to capture strip
chart registrations on a computer screen through the use of Radio Skypipe
software. That cannot be accomplished by direct hookup of the signal strength
receiver to the computer’s Skypipe software. Connection can only be made
through an interface which converts the changing audio frequency of the
Channel Master signal strength receiver into an amplitude changing signal
that is then fed into the sound card of the computer. I took it upon myself to
home build an electronic interface from instructions which I came across in an
ARRL publication. Unfortunately, I found that one of the chips required in the
circuitry was no longer available, nor was an exact replacement for it
available. I substituted a chip that had similar characteristics but a much
lower digital potentiometer resistance (10 ohms instead of 50 ohms).
Result: I think this may be the reason the interface is not functioning as it
should. This is still a problem I am working on.

   Not much more work needs to be done on the JOVE radio telescope with loop
antenna constructed by Dave Lynch to make it operational. This scope also
requires a computer with Skypipe software.
